(docs): Update plain bundle docs (#642)
operator-framework/rukpak: docs/bundles/plain.md

## Overview

This document is meant to define the plain bundle format as a reference for those publishing plain bundles for use with
RukPak. A bundle is a collection of Kubernetes resources that are packaged together for the purposes of installing onto
a Kubernetes cluster. A bundle can be unpacked onto a running cluster, where controllers can then create the underlying
content embedded in the bundle. The bundle can be used as the underlying `spec.source` for

> a [Bundle](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak#bundle) resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a [`Bundle`](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak#bundle) resource.
```

Might be nice to use `formatted text` for code references or identities.

> A plain bundle is simply a collection of static, arbitrary, Kubernetes YAML manifests in a given directory. A plain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A plain bundle is a static collection of arbitrary Kubernetes YAML manifests. A plain
```

> bundle can consist of a container image, a directory in a git repository, or any other content source that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bundle is contained in a directory that can be packaged in a container image layer, a `git` repository, or any other content source that
```

> the [plain bundle provisioner](../provisioners/plain.md)

Reviewer: This reference is a bit of a tautology and does not help new users learn what packaging types are supported. Perhaps enumerate all the supported types and link out to this for more info?

Author: There should be a section a bit below this one that mentions the supported packaging types. I'll move it up to be a bit closer to this section.

supports.

The currently implemented plain bundle format is the `plain+v0` format. The name of the bundle format, `plain+v0`
combines the type of bundle (plain) with the current schema version (v0).
The [plain bundle provisioner](../provisioners/plain.md)
is able to source `plain+v0` bundles and install them onto a Kubernetes cluster.

> > Note: the plain+v0 bundle format is at schema version v0, which means it's an experimental format that is subject

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: the `plain+v0` bundle format is at schema version v0, which means it's an experimental format that is subject
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

> to change.

Supported source types for a plain bundle currently include the following:

> * A [container image](../sources/image.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A directory in a [container image](../sources/image.md)
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

> * A [directory in a git repository](../sources/git.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A [directory in a `git` repository](../sources/git.md)
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

> * A [configmap](../sources/local.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A set of keys in a [`ConfigMap`](../sources/local.md)
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

* An [upload](../sources/upload.md)

Additional source types (such as a local volume or a generic URI-based resource) are on the roadmap. These source types

> all present the same content (a directory containing static Kubernetes YAML manifests) in a different way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all present the same content: a directory containing static Kubernetes YAML manifests.
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

> all present the same content, a directory containing static Kubernetes YAML manifests, in a different ways.

Reviewer 2: nit:  maybe just a 'me' editorial choice, but I'd prefer to use parens to delineate this sub-clause instead of commas

Author: This was actually a part of the original contents of the old `docs/concepts/plain-bundle-spec.md` file that I left unchanged, but I'm happy to clean this up a bit :)

Author: https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/9e92641a1b9b00b528422afe74730bb602a84c46

## Common Terminology

> * `bundle` is a collection of files that define content to be deployed to a cluster

Reviewer: If these are not technical/code names, prefer to use _italics_ for identification here

* `bundle image` is a container image that contains a bundle within its filesystem
* `bundle git repo` is a git repository that contains a bundle within a directory

## Example

For example, below is a minimal example of a Dockerfile that builds a `plain+v0` bundle image from a directory
containing static Kubernetes manifests.

```dockerfile
FROM scratch
COPY /manifests /manifests
```

where the given `manifests` directory contains the Kubernetes resources required to deploy an application, for example:

> ```tree

Reviewer: does `tree` do anything ?

Author: I don't think so. addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

## Overview

This document is meant to define the plain bundle format as a reference for those publishing plain bundles for use with
RukPak. A bundle is a collection of Kubernetes resources that are packaged together for the purposes of installing onto
a Kubernetes cluster. A bundle can be unpacked onto a running cluster, where controllers can then create the underlying
content embedded in the bundle. The bundle can be used as the underlying `spec.source` for
a [`Bundle`](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak#bundle) resource.

A plain bundle is a static collection of arbitrary Kubernetes YAML manifests. A plain bundle is contained in a directory
that can be packaged in a container image layer , a `git` repository or any other content source that the
[plain bundle provisioner](../provisioners/plain.md) supports.

Supported source types for a plain bundle currently include the following:

* A directory in a [container image](../sources/image.md)
* A directory in a [`git` repository](../sources/git.md)
* A set of keys in a [`ConfigMap`](../sources/local.md)
* An [upload](../sources/upload.md)
* A `.tgz` file returned by a [http endpoint](../sources/http.md)

> Additional source types (such as a local volume or a generic URI-based resource) are on the roadmap. These source types all present the same content: a directory containing static Kubernetes YAML manifests

Reviewer 3: I would drop this line. There's nothing on the immediate roadmap at this point AFAIK.

Author: Removed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/56cfbae769c96755690befe3628c45b9e36ee244

## Overview

This document is meant to define the plain bundle format as a reference for those publishing plain bundles for use with

> RukPak. A bundle is a collection of Kubernetes resources that are packaged together for the purposes of installing onto

Author: https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/902da450e601fa3c1b012ca90b21745fb1ecaa25

a Kubernetes cluster. A bundle can be unpacked onto a running cluster, where controllers can then create the underlying

> content embedded in the bundle. The bundle can be used as the underlying `spec.source` for

Reviewer 4: proposing to rephrase: 
" A bundle can be unpacked onto a running cluster, where controllers can then create the underlying
content embedded in the bundle. The bundle can be used as the underlying `spec.source` for a [`Bundle`](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak#bundle) resource."

to

Users can specify through  a [`Bundle`](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak#bundle) or a [`BundleDeployment`](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak#bundledeployment)  a resource bundle that is to be installed. Controllers, called provisioners, consume the bundle referenced in the`spec.source.ref` field of the Bundle resource or the `spec.template.spec.source.ref` of the BundleDeployment and apply the manifests embedded in it.

Author: https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/902da450e601fa3c1b012ca90b21745fb1ecaa25

a [`Bundle`](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak#bundle) resource.

> A plain bundle is a static collection of arbitrary Kubernetes YAML manifests. A plain bundle is contained in a directory

Reviewer 4: proposing to rephrase:
"A plain bundle is contained in a directory"
to
"These manifests contained in a directory"
rational: manifests are the content, the bundle is the resulting entity: a container image, a git repo, etc.

that can be packaged in a container image layer , a `git` repository or any other content source that the
[plain bundle provisioner](../provisioners/plain.md) supports.

Supported source types for a plain bundle currently include the following:

> * A directory in a [container image](../sources/image.md)

Reviewer 4: Do we want to call the directory a bundle instead of the complete image, git repository or configMap that happen per the specifications to have a directory containing the manifests?
I find the match bundle-directory a bit confusing, especially as it is not a directory location which is passed to the provisioner through Bundles or BundleDeployments but an image, git repo location

Author: I would *personally* prefer we keep the collection of manifests what we call a "bundle". I think it is totally reasonable that we provide a way for a user to specify where their bundle exists in the source but keep a sane default if one is unprovided. 

The bundle-directory is just an opinionated concept embedded within RukPak's bundle sourcing logic for specific source types and is something that we can progressively make less opinionated in follow ups (if we decided that is what we want to do)

* A directory in a [`git` repository](../sources/git.md)
* A set of keys in a [`ConfigMap`](../sources/local.md)
* An [upload](../sources/upload.md)
* A `.tgz` file returned by a [http endpoint](../sources/http.md)

The currently implemented plain bundle format is the `plain+v0` format. The name of the bundle format, `plain+v0`
combines the type of bundle (plain) with the current schema version (v0). The
[plain bundle provisioner](../provisioners/plain.md) is able to source
`plain+v0` bundles and install them onto a Kubernetes cluster.

> > Note: the `plain+v0` bundle format is at schema version v0, which means it's an experimental format that is subject

Reviewer 4: Could we follow Kubernetes version scheme with alpha, beta, GA? Ideally in the name `plain+v0`-> `plain+v1alpha1`? If not, at least offer a mapping in the documentation. Kubernetes authors have defined clear rules in terms of API evolution, which set clear expectations to the users. It would be beneficial to offer the same to RukPak users.

Author: I think this is unrelated to this PR, but definitely a good point. This is something that I feel would be worth creating and issue/discussion and doing as a follow-up.

Reviewer 4: https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/issues/652

> to change.

## Common Terminology

> * *bundle* is a collection of files that define content to be deployed to a cluster

Reviewer 4: proposing "manifests" or "manifest files" instead of "files"

Author: https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/902da450e601fa3c1b012ca90b21745fb1ecaa25

* *bundle image* is a container image that contains a bundle within its filesystem

> * *bundle git repo* is a git repository that contains a bundle within a directory

Reviewer 4: See comment above on what we want to call a bundle.

## Technical Details

> * The static manifests must be located in the root-level `/manifests` directory for the bundle to be a

Reviewer 4: Here it is the "image" or "the git repo", that has a `/manifests`directory, which is a called a bundle. I prefer this but it is not consistent with what is described above.

Author: I believe this is standard for all but the `ConfigMap` source type, but I could be wrong. 

Would you mind elaborating on how it is inconsistent with what is described above?

Reviewer 4: > Would you mind elaborating on how it is inconsistent with what is described above?

You write "the static manifests must be located in the root-level `/manifests` directory for the bundle to be a valid `plain+v0` bundle that the provisioner can unpack."
- That the location matters for the validity of "a collection of manifests" does not sound right. It does sound right if you refer to an image containing files.
- When you write that the provisioner can **unpack** a bundle you are referring to an image. "Unpacking" cannot really be applied to "a collection of manifests".

 To keep "the collection of manifests" concept I would rather expect something like: 
 "the static manifests must be located in the root-level `/manifests` directory for the provisioner to be able to locate the `plain+v0` bundle inside an OCI image, git repository or ConfigMap.
[ 
 According to the API ](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/blob/main/api/v1alpha1/bundle_types.go#L80-L109)it seems however that it is only true for an OCI Image as it is possible to specify a directory for a Git repo and a path for a ConfigMap. Although, I am not following
 - why the same option is not offered for an OCI image
 - why it is called `directory`for a Git repo and `path`for a ConfigMap

Author: Ah, I see. Thanks for elaborating - that definitely clarified it for me and I agree that we should go with something more like:
>"the static manifests must be located in the root-level /manifests directory for the provisioner to be able to locate the plain+v0 bundle inside an OCI image, git repository or ConfigMap."

Although since the goal of this doc is to explain what a plain bundle is rather than focusing on provisioner details we should probably refine this a bit more in a way that doesn't mention the provisioner. I'll attempt to reword this section a bit.

Author: I couldn't come up with a good way to remove the mentioning of the provisioner, but I did reword it in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/d2f0fc91f91ca25a2623fe241adbe33897b00629 to state that the plain bundle provisioner is opinionated and expects the plain bundle to be located in the `/manifests` directory.

Let me know if this addresses your concern regarding consistency

Reviewer 4: Yes it does address my concern regarding consistency. I think that "is opinionated" is redundant but it is nitpicking. My impression is that the fact that only /manifests is supported is an implementation restriction rather than a design decision. Especially when it is not the case for Git repository and ConfigMaps.

Author: >My impression is that the fact that only /manifests is supported is an implementation restriction rather than a design decision. Especially when it is not the case for Git repository and ConfigMaps.

I think this is a fair impression and something I agree should be addressed but I would say is out of scope for this particular PR. I noticed you already filed an issue (https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/issues/653) to discuss this so I'm going to mark this comment as resolved. Feel free to unresolve if you feel it hasn't properly been resolved

  valid `plain+v0` bundle that the provisioner can unpack.
* The manifests directory should be flat: all manifests should be at the top-level with no subdirectories.
* It is required that `kubectl apply` is able to process all .yaml files in the directory that make up a plain bundle. For example, multi-object YAML files are acceptable, but Ansible playbooks would not be.

## Building a plain bundle
### Prerequisites

> In order to create a plain bundle for Rukpak, ensure your Kubernetes manifests are in a flat directory at the root of

Reviewer 4: there are multiple ways of writing RukPak in this document. Can we use "RukPak" everywhere?

Author: Thanks for pointing this out! It should be standardized as of https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/902da450e601fa3c1b012ca90b21745fb1ecaa25 - let me know if you notice any spots that I missed!

your project called `manifests/`. This allows the contents to be sourced and unpacked by the
[plain provisioner](..provisioners/plain.md). It should look similar to:

```bash
$ tree manifests
manifests
├── namespace.yaml
├── service_account.yaml
├── cluster_role.yaml
├── cluster_role_binding.yaml
└── deployment.yaml
```

> Note: there must be at least one resource in the manifests directory in order for the bundle to be a valid
> `plain+v0` bundle.

> If you are using [kustomize](https://kustomize.io/) for building your manifests from a template, redirect the output into a single file under the `manifests/` directory. For example:

Reviewer 4: Nitpick: "from a template" -> "from templates"

Author: https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/902da450e601fa3c1b012ca90b21745fb1ecaa25

```bash
$ tree templates
templates
├── namespace.yaml
├── service_account.yaml
├── cluster_role.yaml
├── cluster_role_binding.yaml
├── deployment.yaml.yaml
└── kustomization.yaml
```

```bash
kustomize build templates > manifests/manifests.yaml
```

### Git source

For using the bundle with a [`git` source](../sources/git.md), commit your `manifests/` directory to your `git` repository.

### HTTP source

> For using the bundle with a [HTTP source](../sources/http.md), create a `.tgz` file that contains the `manifests/` directory and it's manifests. This `.tgz` file should be served when hitting the HTTP endpoint.

Reviewer 4: Nitpick: "it's manifests" -> "its manifests"

Author: https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/902da450e601fa3c1b012ca90b21745fb1ecaa25

└── deployment.yaml
```

> For a bundle `git` repo, any directory that contains only static Kubernetes manifests checked into a `git` repository

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is quite true. A plain bundle must have a `manifests` directory (yes, specifically named `manifests`) at its root. So it can't be _any_ directory. The bundle root directory has to contain a `manifests` directory.

Reviewer 3: TBH, I don't think I'd talk about the source types here though. The bundle format and the sourcing mechanism are completely decoupled in the rukpak design.

Author: Removed it in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/56cfbae769c96755690befe3628c45b9e36ee244

> Note: there must be at least one resource in the manifests directory in order for the bundle to be a valid
> `plain+v0` bundle.

## Technical Details

* The static manifests must be located in the root-level `/manifests` directory in a bundle image for the bundle to be a
  valid `plain+v0` bundle that the provisioner can unpack. A plain bundle image without a `/manifests` directory is
  invalid and will not be successfully unpacked onto the cluster.
* For a bundle `git` repo, the manifests directory can be anywhere in the repository, not just at the root-level. The
  location can be specified via `spec.source.git.directory`. There must be a flat directory consisting of Kubernetes YAML manifests at the provided location in order to have a valid bundle git repo. If a specific directory is not provided, it is assumed to be `./manifests` in a bundle git repo.
* The manifests directory should be flat: all manifests should be at the top-level with no subdirectories.
* The plain bundle image can be built from any base image, but `scratch` is recommended as it keeps the resulting bundle
  image a minimal size.

> * It is required that `kubectl apply` is able to process all .yaml files in the directory that make up a plain bundle. For example, multi-object YAML files are acceptable, but Ansible playbooks would not be.

Reviewer 3: I would try to rewrite these to be focused on the contents of a plain bundle root directory, and not at all aware of the source implementation. Then the source docs should talk about the specifics of handing a bundle root off to a provisioner.

Author: Let me know if https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/56cfbae769c96755690befe3628c45b9e36ee244 suffices

```

If you are looking to use a private image registry for sourcing your bundle content, see the ["Private image registries" section of the image source documentation](../sources/image.md#private-image-registries)

### Upload source

For using the bundle with an [upload source](../sources/upload.md), follow the below steps:

1. Download the `rukpakctl` CLI tool
```bash
go install github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/cmd/rukpakctl
```

2. Ensure rukpak is running. For more info on how to install rukpak on your cluster see the [Installation section of the README](../../README.md#installation)

3. Use `rukpakctl` to create a `BundleDeployment` using the `manifests/` directory
```bash
rukpakctl run <bundle-name> .
```

### ConfigMap source

For using the bundle with a [`ConfigMap` source (also known as a local source)](../sources/local.md), follow the below steps:

1. Ensure rukpak is running. For more info on how to install rukpak on your cluster see the [Installation section of the README](../../README.md#installation)

2. Create a `ConfigMap` from the `manifests/` directory
```bash
kubectl create configmap my-configmap --from-file=manifests -n rukpak-system

> ```

Reviewer 3: This is out-dated. I captured a separate issue to get this fixed. This is my bad. I replaced the local source with the configmap source and neglected to update the docs at the same time.

No action to take here, I think it's best to leave this in as a breadcrumb.

https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/issues/645

└── deployment.yaml
```

> For a bundle git repo, any directory that contains only static Kubernetes manifests checked into a git repository

Reviewer: I got lost in this paragraph. What are you trying to say? The plain provisioner needs a `git` repository that supports the HTTP protocol?

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1 (hopefully this is a bit more clear)

accessible via a remote URL can be considered a plain bundle and sourced by the plain provisioner. For more information
on bundles backed by git repositories, see the [git based bundles doc](git-bundles.md).

> Note: there must be at least one resource in the manifests directory in order for the bundle to be a valid

> > plain+v0 bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> `plain+v0` bundle.
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

## Technical Details

* The static manifests must be located in the root-level /manifests directory in a bundle image for the bundle to be a
  valid `plain+v0` bundle that the provisioner can unpack. A plain bundle image without a /manifests directory is
  invalid and will not be successfully unpacked onto the cluster.

> * For a bundle git repo, the manifests directory can be anywhere in the repository, not just at the root-level. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For a bundle `git` repo, the manifests directory can be anywhere in the repository, not just at the root-level. The
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

>   location can be specified via `spec.source.git.directory`. There must be a `manifests` directory at the provided

Reviewer: It is not clear to me if I set `spec.source.git.directory` to the full relative path to the `manifests` dir, or to its' parent. Seems weird that you let users set this path explicitly but then continue to implicitly assume a `manifests` child directory. If this is malleable still I'd suggest just honoring what the user sets.

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1 (hopefully this is a bit more clear)

  location in order to have a valid bundle git repo. If a specific directory is not provided, it is assumed to be
  ./manifests in a bundle git repo.
* The manifests directory should be flat: all manifests should be at the top-level with no subdirectories.
* The plain bundle image can be built from any base image, but `scratch` is recommended as it keeps the resulting bundle
  image a minimal size.

> * Including any content in the root `manifests` directory of a plain bundle that is not static manifests will result in

Reviewer: This paragraph is pretty verbose and not super clear at a first pass. Perhaps try something like:

> It is required that `kubectl apply` is able to process all `.yaml` files in the directory that make up a plain bundle. For example, multi-object YAML files are acceptable, but Ansible playbooks would not be.

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

  successfully `kubectl apply` will result in an error, but multi-object YAML files, or JSON files, are fine. There will
  be validation tooling provided that can determine whether a given artifact is a valid bundle.

## Building a plain bundle
### Prerequisites

In order to create a plain bundle for Rukpak, ensure your Kubernetes manifests are in a flat directory at the root of your project called `manifests/`. This allows the contents to be sourced and unpacked by the [plain provisioner](../provisioners/plain.md). It should look similar to:

```bash
$ tree manifests
manifests
├── namespace.yaml
├── service_account.yaml
├── cluster_role.yaml
├── cluster_role_binding.yaml
└── deployment.yaml
```

If you are using [kustomize](https://kustomize.io/) for building your manifests from a template, redirect the output into a single file under the `manifests/` directory. For example:
```bash
$ tree templates
templates
├── namespace.yaml
├── service_account.yaml
├── cluster_role.yaml
├── cluster_role_binding.yaml
├── deployment.yaml.yaml
└── kustomization.yaml
```

```bash

> kustomize build templates > manifests/manifests.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kustomize build templates > manifests/manifests.yaml
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

```

### Git source

For using the bundle with a [git source](../sources/git.md), commit your `manifests/` directory to your git repository.

### HTTP source

> For using the bundle with a [HTTP source](../sources/http.md), create a `.tgz` file that contains the `manifests/` directory and it's manifests. This `.tgz` file should be served when hitting the HTTP endpoint.

Reviewer: Do you always expect this particular encoding? Does the provisioner provide `Accept` headers to do content negotiation?

Author: It seems that this particular encoding is always expected. It doesn't appear to be the case that the HTTP source type uses any `Accept` headers to perform any content negotiation.

Reviewer 3: @stevekuznetsov That's a good idea! Let's create an issue to track that?

### Image source

For using the bundle with an [image source](../sources/image.md), follow the below steps:

1. Create a Dockerfile at the root of the project
```bash

> touch Dockerfile.plainbundle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ touch Dockerfile.plainbundle
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

```

> 2. Edit the Dockerfile to include the following:

Reviewer: nit: if you're giving shell suggestions, just do a 

```shell
$ cat <<EOF >Dockerfile.plainbundle
FROM scratch
COPY manifests /manifests
EOF
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

```Dockerfile
FROM scratch
COPY manifests /manifests
```

> Note: The Dockerfile can have any `FROM ...` directive, but it is recommended to use the `FROM scratch`
> directive to keep the resulting image size as minimal as possible

> 3. Build the image using a container tool like docker or podman. Use an image tag that references a repository that you have push access to. For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Build an OCI-compliant image using any build tooling you prefer.. Use an image tag that references a repository that you have push access to. For example,
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

```bash

> docker build -f Dockerfile.plainbundle -t quay.io/operator-framework/rukpak:example .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ docker build -f Dockerfile.plainbundle -t quay.io/operator-framework/rukpak:example .
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

```

4. Push the image to the remote registry

```bash

> docker push quay.io/operator-framework/rukpak:example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ docker push quay.io/operator-framework/rukpak:example
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

```

If you are looking to use a private image registry for sourcing your bundle content, see the ["Private image registries" section of the image source documentation](../sources/image.md#private-image-registries)

### Upload source

For using the bundle with an [upload source](../sources/upload.md), follow the below steps:

1. Download the `rukpakctl` CLI tool
```bash

> go install github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/cmd/rukpakctl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ go install github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/cmd/rukpakctl
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

```

2. Ensure rukpak is running. For more info on how to install rukpak on your cluster see the [Installation section of the README](../../README.md#installation)

3. Use `rukpakctl` to create a `BundleDeployment` using the `manifests/` directory
```bash

> rukpakctl run <bundle-name> .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ rukpakctl run <bundle-name> .
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1

```

### ConfigMap source

For using the bundle with a [ConfigMap source (also known as a local source)](../sources/local.md), follow the below steps:

1. Ensure rukpak is running. For more info on how to install rukpak on your cluster see the [Installation section of the README](../../README.md#installation)

2. Create a `ConfigMap` from the `manifests/` directory
```bash

> kubectl create configmap my-configmap --from-file=manifests -n rukpak-system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kubectl create configmap my-configmap --from-file=manifests -n rukpak-system
```

Author: addressed in https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/pull/642/commits/486faf8915e2f3f891ee769b99651e3039d052b1
